README.binaries.md, before:

# Dash for Fedora, CentOS, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux<br />_...wallet, node, and masternode_

This document describes what is available to Fedora, CentOS, and Red Hat
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) users seeking natively compiled Dash Core software. This
document will also guide those users through the process of configuring their
systems to easily install, verify, and update that software. Once configured,
updating Dash Core software will be just as trivial as updating the rest of
their system.

> What is Dash? [dash.org](https://dash.org/), [official documentation](https://docs.dash.org)<br />
> What is a Masternode? <https://docs.dash.org/en/latest/masternodes/index.html><br />
> What are these Linuxes? [Fedora](https://getfedora.org/), [CentOS](https://www.centos.org/), [RHEL](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux-platforms/enterprise-linux)
 
## *"TL;DR ...I just want to install the Dash Core GUI Wallet!"*

Proper packaging and repositories make installation and future upgrades
trivial.

Assuming you are logging in as a normal user who has `sudo` priviledges.<br />
At the terminal command line...

```bash
# My system is Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf install -y dashcore-client --refresh
dash-qt
```

...if using CentOS or RHEL

```bash
# My system is CentOS or RHEL
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo yum install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum install -y dashcore-client
dash-qt # Or browse your menuing system and look for "Dash"
```

**Boom! Done!** You should now see a Dash Core Wallet graphical application
open up on your screen and a reference to it in your desktop menus.

_Note that all configuration/data for the wallet will populate the `~/.dashcore/` directory._

&nbsp;

## *"TL;DR ...I have a masternode and I want to manage it via a hardware wallet!"*

### Install the _Dash Masternode Tool_ on your Fedora Linux workstation

Assumption: Your workstation is a Fedora Linux system (only supported for
Fedora 27 and Fedora 28 at the moment). The commands below also assume you are
logging in as a normal user who has `sudo` priviledges.

At the terminal command line...

```bash
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf install -y dash-masternode-tool --refresh
```

Now browse your menuing system and select the "Dash Masternode Tool" icon.
**Boom!** You should now see the Dash Masternode Tool graphical application
open up on your screen. For more information on how to actually USE the tool,
please visit
<https://github.com/Bertrand256/dash-masternode-tool/blob/master/README.md>.

> _Note that my version of the Dash Masternode Tool uses `~/.config/dmt/` as
  its data directory. This diverges from the default used by the raw tool from
  the Bertrand256 repositories. He uses ~/.dmt/. This version will fall back to
  `~/.dmt/` if you prefer that location (i.e., just move the directory to that
  location and the tool will use it.. I personally consider is a reasonable
  choice, but less pedantically "correct".

> _**WARNING:** The data directory (see above) contains HIGHLY sensitive
  information. The Dash Masternode Tool as configured here tightens up the
  default permissions, but you should really perhaps consider backing up the
  ~/.config/dmt directory to a USB stick or something and deleting it locally.
  If you are confident that you can keep your system secure (you are probably
  being over-confident), then, by all means, leave it as is._

&nbsp;

## *"TL;DR ...I want to install a Dash Masternode!"*

That takes some explanation. Start here:
<https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/tree/master/documentation>

&nbsp;

---

## Additional detail...

If you are interested in building your own RPM packages from source, those can
be found here: <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/blob/master/README.source.md>

If you are looking for Dash wallets for other platforms, those can be found here:
<https://www.dash.org/downloads/>

**Masternode Documentation:** <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/tree/master/documentation><br />   
**Other Documentation:** <https://dashpay.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/><br />
**Other Masternode Documentation:** <https://dashpay.atlassian.net/wiki/display/DOC/Masternode>


## Configuring your system to have access to the Dash RPM package repositories

We are going to do this at the command line from an account that has `sudo`ers
access. Log into a terminal and do this...

*...if using Fedora:*

```bash
# My system is Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
```

*...if using CentOS or RHEL*

```bash
# My system is CentOS or RHEL
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo yum install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
```

That's it! You are now configured to install Dash Core through your package
manager.

## List what's available

Want to see what packages are available? Do this...<br />

```
# Fedora
sudo dnf list|grep dashcore
```

...or...

```
# CentOS or RHEL
sudo yum list|grep dashcore
```

You should get a nice listing of all the packages available to your linux
system.

## Stable versus the not-so-stable testing repos

By default, those `*.repo` files configure your system to only pull from the
"stable" repository.

NOT RECOMMENDED: If you want to install the "testing" software instead, do this:<br />

*...fedora:*

```
sudo dnf config-manager --set-disabled dashcore-stable
sudo dnf config-manager --set-enabled dashcore-testing
sudo dnf list --refresh|grep dashcore
```

*...centos or rhel:*

```
sudo yum-config-manager --disable dashcore-stable
sudo yum-config-manager --enable dashcore-testing
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum list|grep dashcore
```

The listing command at the end isn't required, but it is helpful to show that
the version of what software is available just changed.

> Critical: If you are just testing things, remember to enable testnet in your
`dash.conf` file. If testnet, ensure you have `testnet=1` set.

To switch back to the stable repositories, just flip-flop the enable/disable
command line switches above and re-run those commands.

## Installing or Upgrading Dash Core software

If you have configured things appropriately. Installation is truly this easy...

***To install the non-graphical, command-line-only, version of the software:
`dashd`***

*...fedora:*

```
sudo dnf install dashcore-server
```

*...centos or RHEL:*

```
sudo yum install dashcore-server
```

The operating system's package manager will automagically pull in any
dependencies, give you a list, and ask you if you are sure. You will see that
for `dashcore-server`, `dashcore-utils` will also be installed. It's a needed
dependency because it contains the `dash-cli` command line utility.

**You want the GUI wallet instead?** Say "N"o to that installation request, run the
same command as above, but choose `dashcore-client` instead.

Have you set up a masternode and **manage your wallet via a hardware wallet
(Trezor, Ledger, or Keepkey)?** Say "N"o to that installation request, run the
same command as above, but choose `dash-masternode-tool` install. _Note that
managing your masternode via a hardware wallet using `dash-masternode-tool` is
beyond the scope of this document. Use this repo to install it, and read more
how to use it via
<https://github.com/Bertrand256/dash-masternode-tool/blob/master/README.md>._

YUM and DNF also automatically check to see if they packages are digitally
signed appropriately and if the files are corrupt. Fancy! If you are familiar
with `apt-get`, it's more or less the same thing if someone built similar
packages for Ubuntu.

**Future upgrades...**

Let's say you see in the [Dash Forums](https://dash.org/forum) that a new version of Dash
Core was released. You want your system updated as soon as possible. It's now
trivial. Just do this...

*...fedora:*

```
sudo dnf upgrade
```

*...centos or RHEL:*

```
sudo yum update -y
```

And then after the refreshed packages were updated, restart the wallet or
`dashd`. Please note that for major upgrades, more actions may have to be taken
for example, a masternode going from 12.2 to 12.3 requires a masternode
restart.


#### Good luck!

Send comments or feedback to <t0dd@protonmail.com>

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

## Appendix: QnA and other information

#### Q: I see CentOS packages but nothing *specific* to RHEL, why is that?

A: Because CentOS packages will run just fine on RHEL.

#### Q: Sentinel? What's this Sentinel thing?

A: Operating a Masternode requires 3 things now...

1. A collateral-bearing wallet
2. A `dashd` server node
3. Sentinel

Sentinel is going to increasingly take over the duties of a Masternode, whereas
`dashd` will perform the normal node operations. Both are required.

This is all explained in the [Masternode
documentation](https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/tree/master/documentation).


#### Q: Testing?

A. In that repository configaration file that you downloaded and installed in
directory `/etc/yum.repos.d`, you have access to test versions of Dash. Unless
you know what you are doing, I do not recommend you enable that repository.


#### Q: What are all these packages?

* **toddpkgs-dashcore-repo** -- this package enables automation of installation
  and update of all the packages listed below via dnf or yum repository
  configuration.

* **dash-masternode-tool** -- A graphical desktop application that enables
  masternode owners to manage their masternode collateral from a hardware
  wallet like Trezor, Keepkey, or Ledger.

  _Note that all "dashcore" applications are representative Dash Core reference
  implementations of their respective areas of functionality._

* **dashcore-client** -- dash-qt, a graphical desktop wallet application and
  full node.

* **dashcore-utils** -- dash-cli, a utility to communicate with and control a
  Dash server via its RPC protocol, and dash-tx, a utility to create custom Dash
  transactions.

* **dashcore-server** -- dashd, a peer-to-peer node and wallet server. It is the
  command line installation without a GUI.  It can be used as a commandline
  wallet but is typically used to run a Dash Masternode (runs ideally as a
  serviced daemon). *Requires `dashcore-utils` to be installed as well.*

* **dashcore-libs** -- provides libbitcoinconsensus, which is used by third
  party applications to verify scripts (and other functionality in the future).

* **dashcore-devel** -- provides the libraries and header files necessary to
  compile programs which use libbitcoinconsensus. *Requires `dashcore-libs` to
  be installed as well.*

* **dashcore-[*version info*].src.rpm** -- The source code -- the source RPM, or
  SRPM. You want to build binaries for your RPM-based linux distribution? Use
  this source RPM to do so easily.

* **dashcore-debuginfo** -- debug information for package dashcore. Debug
  information is useful when developing applications that use this package or
  when debugging this package. (*99.999% of you do not need to install this*)


---

#### Good luck!

Got a dash of feedback? Send it my way: <https://keybase.io/toddwarner>

Commit message:

Added note about needed configuration of the EPEL repositories for CentOS/RHEL

README.binaries.md, after:

# Dash for Fedora, CentOS, and Red Hat Enterprise Linux<br />_...wallet, node, and masternode_

This document describes what is available to Fedora, CentOS, and Red Hat
Enterprise Linux (RHEL) users seeking natively compiled Dash Core software. This
document will also guide those users through the process of configuring their
systems to easily install, verify, and update that software. Once configured,
updating Dash Core software will be just as trivial as updating the rest of
their system.

> What is Dash? [dash.org](https://dash.org/), [official documentation](https://docs.dash.org)<br />
> What is a Masternode? <https://docs.dash.org/en/latest/masternodes/index.html><br />
> What are these Linuxes? [Fedora](https://getfedora.org/), [CentOS](https://www.centos.org/), [RHEL](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux-platforms/enterprise-linux)
 
## *"TL;DR ...I just want to install the Dash Core GUI Wallet!"*

Proper packaging and repositories make installation and future upgrades
trivial.

Assuming you are logging in as a normal user who has `sudo` priviledges.<br />
At the terminal command line...

```bash
# My system is Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf install -y dashcore-client --refresh
dash-qt
```

...if using CentOS or RHEL

Note: You have to first ensure you have the EPEL repositories configured: `sudo yum repolist enabled`  
If you do not, browse to the [EPEL community page](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) and follow their installation instructions (it's easy).

Then...

```bash
# My system is CentOS or RHEL
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo yum install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum install -y dashcore-client
dash-qt # Or browse your menuing system and look for "Dash"
```

**Boom! Done!** You should now see a Dash Core Wallet graphical application
open up on your screen and a reference to it in your desktop menus.

_Note that all configuration/data for the wallet will populate the `~/.dashcore/` directory._

&nbsp;

## *"TL;DR ...I have a masternode and I want to manage it via a hardware wallet!"*

### Install the _Dash Masternode Tool_ on your Fedora Linux workstation

Assumption: Your workstation is a Fedora Linux system (only supported for
Fedora 27 and Fedora 28 at the moment). The commands below also assume you are
logging in as a normal user who has `sudo` priviledges.

At the terminal command line...

```bash
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf install -y dash-masternode-tool --refresh
```

Now browse your menuing system and select the "Dash Masternode Tool" icon.
**Boom!** You should now see the Dash Masternode Tool graphical application
open up on your screen. For more information on how to actually USE the tool,
please visit
<https://github.com/Bertrand256/dash-masternode-tool/blob/master/README.md>.

> _Note that my version of the Dash Masternode Tool uses `~/.config/dmt/` as
  its data directory. This diverges from the default used by the raw tool from
  the Bertrand256 repositories. He uses ~/.dmt/. This version will fall back to
  `~/.dmt/` if you prefer that location (i.e., just move the directory to that
  location and the tool will use it.. I personally consider is a reasonable
  choice, but less pedantically "correct".

> _**WARNING:** The data directory (see above) contains HIGHLY sensitive
  information. The Dash Masternode Tool as configured here tightens up the
  default permissions, but you should really perhaps consider backing up the
  ~/.config/dmt directory to a USB stick or something and deleting it locally.
  If you are confident that you can keep your system secure (you are probably
  being over-confident), then, by all means, leave it as is._

&nbsp;

## *"TL;DR ...I want to install a Dash Masternode!"*

That takes some explanation. Start here:
<https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/tree/master/documentation>

&nbsp;

---

## Additional detail...

If you are interested in building your own RPM packages from source, those can
be found here: <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/blob/master/README.source.md>

If you are looking for Dash wallets for other platforms, those can be found here:
<https://www.dash.org/downloads/>

**Masternode Documentation:** <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/tree/master/documentation><br />   
**Other Documentation:** <https://dashpay.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/><br />
**Other Masternode Documentation:** <https://dashpay.atlassian.net/wiki/display/DOC/Masternode>


## Configuring your system to have access to the Dash RPM package repositories

We are going to do this at the command line from an account that has `sudo`ers
access. Log into a terminal and do this...

*...if using Fedora:*

```bash
# My system is Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
```

*...if using CentOS or RHEL*

Note: You have to first ensure you have the EPEL repositories configured: `sudo yum repolist enabled`  
If you do not, browse to the [EPEL community page](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) and follow their installation instructions (it's easy).

Then...

```bash
# My system is CentOS or RHEL
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo yum install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
```

That's it! You are now configured to install Dash Core through your package
manager.

## List what's available

Want to see what packages are available? Do this...<br />

```
# Fedora
sudo dnf list|grep dashcore
```

...or...

```
# CentOS or RHEL
sudo yum list|grep dashcore
```

You should get a nice listing of all the packages available to your linux
system.

## Stable versus the not-so-stable testing repos

By default, those `*.repo` files configure your system to only pull from the
"stable" repository.

NOT RECOMMENDED: If you want to install the "testing" software instead, do this:<br />

*...fedora:*

```
sudo dnf config-manager --set-disabled dashcore-stable
sudo dnf config-manager --set-enabled dashcore-testing
sudo dnf list --refresh|grep dashcore
```

*...centos or rhel:*

```
sudo yum-config-manager --disable dashcore-stable
sudo yum-config-manager --enable dashcore-testing
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum list|grep dashcore
```

The listing command at the end isn't required, but it is helpful to show that
the version of what software is available just changed.

> Critical: If you are just testing things, remember to enable testnet in your
`dash.conf` file. If testnet, ensure you have `testnet=1` set.

To switch back to the stable repositories, just flip-flop the enable/disable
command line switches above and re-run those commands.

## Installing or Upgrading Dash Core software

If you have configured things appropriately. Installation is truly this easy...

***To install the non-graphical, command-line-only, version of the software:
`dashd`***

*...fedora:*

```
sudo dnf install dashcore-server
```

*...centos or RHEL:*

```
sudo yum install dashcore-server
```

The operating system's package manager will automagically pull in any
dependencies, give you a list, and ask you if you are sure. You will see that
for `dashcore-server`, `dashcore-utils` will also be installed. It's a needed
dependency because it contains the `dash-cli` command line utility.

**You want the GUI wallet instead?** Say "N"o to that installation request, run the
same command as above, but choose `dashcore-client` instead.

Have you set up a masternode and **manage your wallet via a hardware wallet
(Trezor, Ledger, or Keepkey)?** Say "N"o to that installation request, run the
same command as above, but choose `dash-masternode-tool` install. _Note that
managing your masternode via a hardware wallet using `dash-masternode-tool` is
beyond the scope of this document. Use this repo to install it, and read more
how to use it via
<https://github.com/Bertrand256/dash-masternode-tool/blob/master/README.md>._

YUM and DNF also automatically check to see if they packages are digitally
signed appropriately and if the files are corrupt. Fancy! If you are familiar
with `apt-get`, it's more or less the same thing if someone built similar
packages for Ubuntu.

**Future upgrades...**

Let's say you see in the [Dash Forums](https://dash.org/forum) that a new version of Dash
Core was released. You want your system updated as soon as possible. It's now
trivial. Just do this...

*...fedora:*

```
sudo dnf upgrade
```

*...centos or RHEL:*

```
sudo yum update -y
```

And then after the refreshed packages were updated, restart the wallet or
`dashd`. Please note that for major upgrades, more actions may have to be taken
for example, a masternode going from 12.2 to 12.3 requires a masternode
restart.


#### Good luck!

Send comments or feedback to <t0dd@protonmail.com>

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

---

## Appendix: QnA and other information

#### Q: I see CentOS packages but nothing *specific* to RHEL, why is that?

A: Because CentOS packages will run just fine on RHEL.

#### Q: Sentinel? What's this Sentinel thing?

A: Operating a Masternode requires 3 things now...

1. A collateral-bearing wallet
2. A `dashd` server node
3. Sentinel

Sentinel is going to increasingly take over the duties of a Masternode, whereas
`dashd` will perform the normal node operations. Both are required.

This is all explained in the [Masternode
documentation](https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/tree/master/documentation).


#### Q: Testing?

A. In that repository configaration file that you downloaded and installed in
directory `/etc/yum.repos.d`, you have access to test versions of Dash. Unless
you know what you are doing, I do not recommend you enable that repository.


#### Q: What are all these packages?

* **toddpkgs-dashcore-repo** -- this package enables automation of installation
  and update of all the packages listed below via dnf or yum repository
  configuration.

* **dash-masternode-tool** -- A graphical desktop application that enables
  masternode owners to manage their masternode collateral from a hardware
  wallet like Trezor, Keepkey, or Ledger.

  _Note that all "dashcore" applications are representative Dash Core reference
  implementations of their respective areas of functionality._

* **dashcore-client** -- dash-qt, a graphical desktop wallet application and
  full node.

* **dashcore-utils** -- dash-cli, a utility to communicate with and control a
  Dash server via its RPC protocol, and dash-tx, a utility to create custom Dash
  transactions.

* **dashcore-server** -- dashd, a peer-to-peer node and wallet server. It is the
  command line installation without a GUI.  It can be used as a commandline
  wallet but is typically used to run a Dash Masternode (runs ideally as a
  serviced daemon). *Requires `dashcore-utils` to be installed as well.*

* **dashcore-libs** -- provides libbitcoinconsensus, which is used by third
  party applications to verify scripts (and other functionality in the future).

* **dashcore-devel** -- provides the libraries and header files necessary to
  compile programs which use libbitcoinconsensus. *Requires `dashcore-libs` to
  be installed as well.*

* **dashcore-[*version info*].src.rpm** -- The source code -- the source RPM, or
  SRPM. You want to build binaries for your RPM-based linux distribution? Use
  this source RPM to do so easily.

* **dashcore-debuginfo** -- debug information for package dashcore. Debug
  information is useful when developing applications that use this package or
  when debugging this package. (*99.999% of you do not need to install this*)


---

#### Good luck!

Got a dash of feedback? Send it my way: <https://keybase.io/toddwarner>
