source-dashcore-sentinel-0.12.1-contrib/dashcore-sentinel/contrib/linux/README.redhat.md, before:

# About Sentinel and this RPM package

Dash Core Sentinel is a companion service adding functionality to Dash Core
Masternodes. If you are running the GUI client, or the Dash Core server as a
full node and not a masternode, then Sentinel and this document are irrelevant.

This packaged version of Sentinel assumes a few things about your masternode
configuration.

0. That the masternode is running as a systemd managed service. And therefore,
1. The masternode's `datadir` is located in /var/lib/dashcore
2. The masternode's configuration file, `dash.conf`, is found in
   /etc/dashcore/dash.conf
3. That Sentinel will run as system user `dash`

Therefore, if you intend to run multiple masternodes on one system. Or if you
are operating your masternode from a different data-directory and different
configuration file, this README does not articulate those scenarios.

----

# Using Sentinel

After setting up, configuring, and _fully syncing_ your masternode, you need to.

0. Start the masternode from your collaterolized wallet
1. Edit `/var/lib/dashcore-sentinel/sentinel.conf`
2. Ensure `dash_conf` points at your `dashd`'s `dash.conf` file
   * `dash_conf=$HOME/.dashcore/dash.conf` is the upstream default
   * `dash_conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf` is the packaged default and recommended
     for `dashd` running as a systemd managed daemon.
3. Ensure `network=testnet` (or mainnet) dependent on which network you are operating.    
   _**Default right now is testnet** - I believe dash.conf overrides this._
3. Once edited and saved, do this...

Verify everything works (do this as root user) - _note: your masternode must be fully
sync'ed and started by the managing wallet_...
```
SENTINEL_DEBUG=1 cd /var/lib/sentinel && sudo -u dash ./venv/bin/python scripts/crontab.p
```

Then edit the dash system user's crontab...
```
sudo -u dash crontab -e
```

And within that editor, add this line:
```
*/2 * * * * cd /var/lib/dashcore-sentinel && ./venv/bin/python scripts/crontab.py >/dev/null 2>&1
```

Happy Masternoding! -t0dd

Commit message:

user:group dash:dash is now dashcore:dashcore Fixed systemctl restart sleep times systemctl xxxx dash is now systemctl xxxx dashd mainnet is now default out of the box Sentinel rebuilt with logging bug fix (PR has been submitted)

source-dashcore-sentinel-0.12.1-contrib/dashcore-sentinel/contrib/linux/README.redhat.md, after:

# About Sentinel and this RPM package

Dash Core Sentinel is a companion service adding functionality to Dash Core
Masternodes. If you are running the GUI client, or the Dash Core server as a
full node and not a masternode, then Sentinel and this document are irrelevant.

This packaged version of Sentinel assumes a few things about your masternode
configuration.

0. That the masternode is running as a systemd managed service. And therefore,
1. The masternode's `datadir` is located in /var/lib/dashcore
2. The masternode's configuration file, `dash.conf`, is found in
   /etc/dashcore/dash.conf
3. That Sentinel will run as system user `dashcore`

Therefore, if you intend to run multiple masternodes on one system. Or if you
are operating your masternode from a different data-directory and different
configuration file, this README does not articulate those scenarios.

----

# Using Sentinel

After setting up, configuring, and _fully syncing_ your masternode, you need to.

0. Start the masternode from your collateral-bearing wallet
1. Edit `/var/lib/dashcore/sentinel/sentinel.conf`
2. Ensure `dash_conf` points at your `dashd`'s `dash.conf` file
   * `dash_conf=$HOME/.dashcore/dash.conf` is the upstream default
   * `dash_conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf` is the packaged default and recommended
     for `dashd` running as a systemd managed daemon.
3. You can probably leave `network=testnet` (or mainnet) commented. dash_conf
   should override this. Regardless, let it be the leader in this setting.
4. Once edited and saved, do this...

Verify everything works (do this as root user) - _note: your masternode must be fully
sync'ed and started by the managing wallet_...
```
cd /var/lib/dashcore/sentinel && sudo -u dashcore ./venv/bin/python scripts/crontab.p
```

Then edit the dashcore system user's crontab...
```
sudo -u dashcore crontab -e
```

And within that editor, add this line:
```
*/2 * * * * cd /var/lib/dashcore/sentinel && ./venv/bin/python scripts/crontab.py >/dev/null 2>&1
```

# Good luck!

For more information on this topic, please visit <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/tree/master/documentation>

Happy Masternoding! -t0dd
