documentation/howto.dashcore-upgrade-from-0.12.3-to-0.13.0.md, before:

# HowTo: Upgrade from Dash Core version 0.12.3 to 0.13.0

These instructions are specific to node, masternode, and wallet users running
the software on Fedora, ~~CentOS, or RHEL~~ (i386 and x86_64) plugged into the
`yum` or `dnf` install and update process described in other documentation
found at <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm>. Fedora 27 will no longer be
supported as of v0.13.0.

The process for upgrade is actually rather trivial, ***but it does require attention to detail***. Read on...

> **BIG UGLY WARNING #1**<br />Because of the extremely dated version of cmake
> in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 (and CentOS 7), these platforms will not be
> supported. EL8 is in beta at the moment, but won't be released until
> something like mid-May 2019. Until then, if you want to run a node or
> masternode, you will have to switch to Fedora. Fedora 29 is as stable as a
> rock though so... RECOMMEND!

> **WARNING #2:<br />**If you are upgrading a Masternode, 0.13.0 will require a
> wallet-driven restart to a protocol bump *and additonal configuration*, so
> time your upgrade to happen soon after your normal Masternode payout.

## The process

*Assumption:<br />The OS has already been upgraded or installed to match a
supported version: Fedora 28 or 29 (i386 or x86_64). OS upgrade process can be
found
[here](https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/blob/master/documentation/howto.upgrade-the-operating-system.md).*

#### _...summary..._
* [0] Shut everything down
* [1] Back everything up
* [2] Update your repo configuration
* [3] Upgrade Dash Core binary packages from 0.12.3 to 0.13.0
* [4] Start everything back up
* [5] Masternodes only: Send start command from wallet to Masternode
* [6] Masternodes only: Deploy new v0.13 configurations to support Deterministic Masternode Lists
* Monitor the configuration over time and adjust

### [0] Shut everything down

* If running `dash-qt` (the graphical client program), in your menus choose "File" and then "Exit"
* If running `dashd` manually (not as a systemd service), then issue a shutdown with `dash-cli stop`
* If running `dashd` as a systemd service, then issue a shutdown command with `sudo systemctl stop dash`

### [1] Back everything up

Note: If you are just running a node with no funds associated, you don't really
need to back it up. If disaster strikes, you can just rebuild it. A masternode
can be similarly rebuilt, but a backup makes everything easier. And of course,
with a wallet, a backup is critical for ensuring your funds are protected.

The easiest way to back up your wallet is to shut it down and then copy any
configuration and wallet data files.

* Shut down -- You should have already done this in step [0]
* Open up a terminal
* Create a tar-archive (like zip, but better) of your configuration and wallet data files<br />
  _Note: If these are overly complicated for you, just be sure to copy `wallet.dat` and any `.conf` files somewhere and you will be fine._

*This is the general pattern of creating a backup tar-archive...*

Scenario1: The dashd server is run as a systemd service:
```
sudo tar cvzf dash-backup-$(date +%F).tar.gz /etc/dashcore/dash.conf $(sudo find /var/lib/dashcore -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

&nbsp;

Scenario2: The graphical client or dashd is run from the user's home directory:
```
cd ~
tar cvzf dash-backup-$(date -%F).tar.gz .dashcore/dash.conf $(find .dashcore/ -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

&nbsp;


Verify the integrity of your backup

```
mkdir x
cd x
cp ../dashcore-backup-*.tar.gz .
tar xvzf dashcore-backup-*.tar.gz
sha256sum wallet.dat /path/to/dash-data-directory/wallet.dat # The results should match
cd ..
rm -rf x
```
* If you ever need to restore your wallet, node, or masternode, set up a new
  one and just like in the test, extract the archive but this time replace
  all the new setup's files with the ones from the archive.
* Store that "tarball" somewhere safe.
* Repeat to yourself: _"I should have been doing this all along!"_


### [2] Update your dnf/yum repo configuration - switch to the new "stable" repo

After DATE-TBD: If are already have the repository RPM installed --
toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm -- the repository switch to 0.13.0 will be
automated for you. That will be the date that all masternodes should have
already been switched over.

#### If you have not already installed the `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo` RPM...

```
# Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf list --refresh | grep dashcore
```
```
## CentOS/RHEL (NO LONGER SUPPORTED AS OF v0.13.0!)...
#sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
#sudo yum install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
#sudo yum clean expire-cache
#sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

#### Are you upgrading before DATE-TBD and you already installed `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo`?...

```
# Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf upgrade -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf list --refresh | grep dashcore
```

```
## CentOS/RHEL (NO LONGER SUPPORTED AS OF v0.13.0!)...
#sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
#sudo yum update -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
#sudo yum clean expire-cache
#sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

#### Are you upgrading on or after DATE-TBD and you already installed `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo`? Do this instead...

```
# Fedora...
sudo dnf upgrade toddpkgs-dashcore-repo --refresh -y
sudo dnf list | grep dashcore
```
```
# CentOS/RHEL (NO LONGER SUPPORTED AS OF v0.13.0!)...
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum update toddpkgs-dashcore-repo -y
sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

Updating that RPM will automatically enable the 0.13.0 stable repository. If the
above commands did not show 0.13.0 packages listed, investigate your
/etc/yum.repos.d/ directory. The repo definition file may be installed in an
.rpmnew file or some such and need to be manually moved with the `mv` command.


### [3] Upgrade Dash Core binary packages

```
# Fedora...
# Upgrade Dash Core and Sentinel
sudo dnf upgrade -y
```

```
## CentOS/RHEL (NO LONGER SUPPORTED AS OF v0.13.0!)...
## Upgrade Dash Core and Sentinel
#sudo yum update -y
```


### [4] Start everything back up

#### If this is a GUI wallet - `dash-qt`

Start it up via the desktop menuing system. It _might_ ask if you want to
re-index the blockchain. If it does, choose "YES". When complete, check your
balances.


#### If this is a node (or masternode) - `dashd`

Note: For the blockcount information below, it needs to match the current block
height as listed at <https://explorer.dash.org/chain/Dash> (or one of the
explorers listed at <https://www.dash.org/network/>. If you are using TESTNET,
check out one of the explorers found
[here](https://docs.dash.org/en/stable/developers/testnet.html?highlight=explorers#explorers).


If running `dashd` as a normal user and not as a systemd managed service...
```
# Start the Dash Core server...
dashd # It will start and daemonize (give you the commandline prompt back)
# Watch the blockcount (CRTL-C to exit this loop)...
watch dash-cli getblockcount # CTRL-C to exit
# Watch the debug.log
tail -f ~/.dashcore/debug.log
```

If running node (or masternode) as a `systemd` managed service...
```
# Start dashd.service...
sudo systemctl start dashd
# Watch the blockcount (CRTL-C to exit this loop)...
watch sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore getblockcount
# Watch the debug.log...
sudo -u dashcore tail -f /var/lib/dashcore/debug.log
```

If this is a masternode...
```
# Check the results of `mnsync status`. If the status never syncs fully, you
# may have to perform a `mnsync reset`. Note that the syncing process can take 15
# to 30 minutes.
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore masternode mnsync reset
```

### [5] Masternode upgrade only: Send start command from Wallet to Masternode

*This only has to happen for major releases, like 0.12.3 to 0.13.0. You
usually don't have send the restart command for minor releases (eg. 0.13.0 to
0.13.1). The protocol change from 0.12.3 to 0.13.0 was `70210` to `70212`*

***You have to restart the Masternode from your collateralizing wallet. Here's
how...***

1. Ensure you have upgraded your wallet as well (IMPORTANT).
2. Open your wallet, you can either...
   * Masternode tab > right click on masternode > Start alias
   * Tools menu > Debug console > _masternode start-alias <MN Alias>_
   * From command line: _dash-cli masternode start-alias <MN Alias>_


### Masternode upgrade in particular: Monitor your status

```
# For systemd-run masternodes...
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore getnetworkinfo
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore mnsync status
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore masternode debug
```

### [6] Masternode upgrades only:<br />Deploy new v0.13 configurations to support Deterministic Masternode Lists

Follow these instructions (step 1 is what you already just performed):
<https://docs.dash.org/en/latest/masternodes/maintenance.html#dash-0-13-upgrade-procedure>

## Done.

It really isn't hard. If you read through this once or twice, you kinda get
what we are doing: _Update the RPM packages, restart everything._ Easy peasy.
If you foul everything up. Just try again.

More configuration. At your convenient, you really should ensure your firewall
rules are rechecked (see `howto.secure-your-dash-masternode.md`).

---

### Good luck! Comments and Feedback...

Got a dash of feedback? Send it my way: <https://keybase.io/toddwarner><br />

Commit message:

Note about v0.13.0 being in testing.

documentation/howto.dashcore-upgrade-from-0.12.3-to-0.13.0.md, after:

# HowTo: Upgrade from Dash Core version 0.12.3 to 0.13.0

**IMPORTANT!**<br />Version 0.13.0 is currently in testing. Do not use for
production (the mainnet).

These instructions are specific to node, masternode, and wallet users running
the software on Fedora, ~~CentOS, or RHEL~~ (i386 and x86_64) plugged into the
`yum` or `dnf` install and update process described in other documentation
found at <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm>. Fedora 27 will no longer be
supported as of v0.13.0.

The process for upgrade is actually rather trivial, ***but it does require attention to detail***. Read on...

> **BIG UGLY WARNING #1**<br />Because of the extremely dated version of cmake
> in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 (and CentOS 7), these platforms will not be
> supported. EL8 is in beta at the moment, but won't be released until
> something like mid-May 2019. Until then, if you want to run a node or
> masternode, you will have to switch to Fedora. Fedora 29 is as stable as a
> rock though so... RECOMMEND!

> **WARNING #2:<br />**If you are upgrading a Masternode, 0.13.0 will require a
> wallet-driven restart to a protocol bump *and additonal configuration*, so
> time your upgrade to happen soon after your normal Masternode payout.

## The process

*Assumption:<br />The OS has already been upgraded or installed to match a
supported version: Fedora 28 or 29 (i386 or x86_64). OS upgrade process can be
found
[here](https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/blob/master/documentation/howto.upgrade-the-operating-system.md).*

#### _...summary..._
* [0] Shut everything down
* [1] Back everything up
* [2] Update your repo configuration
* [3] Upgrade Dash Core binary packages from 0.12.3 to 0.13.0
* [4] Start everything back up
* [5] Masternodes only: Send start command from wallet to Masternode
* [6] Masternodes only: Deploy new v0.13 configurations to support Deterministic Masternode Lists
* Monitor the configuration over time and adjust

### [0] Shut everything down

* If running `dash-qt` (the graphical client program), in your menus choose "File" and then "Exit"
* If running `dashd` manually (not as a systemd service), then issue a shutdown with `dash-cli stop`
* If running `dashd` as a systemd service, then issue a shutdown command with `sudo systemctl stop dash`

### [1] Back everything up

Note: If you are just running a node with no funds associated, you don't really
need to back it up. If disaster strikes, you can just rebuild it. A masternode
can be similarly rebuilt, but a backup makes everything easier. And of course,
with a wallet, a backup is critical for ensuring your funds are protected.

The easiest way to back up your wallet is to shut it down and then copy any
configuration and wallet data files.

* Shut down -- You should have already done this in step [0]
* Open up a terminal
* Create a tar-archive (like zip, but better) of your configuration and wallet data files<br />
  _Note: If these are overly complicated for you, just be sure to copy `wallet.dat` and any `.conf` files somewhere and you will be fine._

*This is the general pattern of creating a backup tar-archive...*

Scenario1: The dashd server is run as a systemd service:
```
sudo tar cvzf dash-backup-$(date +%F).tar.gz /etc/dashcore/dash.conf $(sudo find /var/lib/dashcore -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

&nbsp;

Scenario2: The graphical client or dashd is run from the user's home directory:
```
cd ~
tar cvzf dash-backup-$(date -%F).tar.gz .dashcore/dash.conf $(find .dashcore/ -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

&nbsp;


Verify the integrity of your backup

```
mkdir x
cd x
cp ../dashcore-backup-*.tar.gz .
tar xvzf dashcore-backup-*.tar.gz
sha256sum wallet.dat /path/to/dash-data-directory/wallet.dat # The results should match
cd ..
rm -rf x
```
* If you ever need to restore your wallet, node, or masternode, set up a new
  one and just like in the test, extract the archive but this time replace
  all the new setup's files with the ones from the archive.
* Store that "tarball" somewhere safe.
* Repeat to yourself: _"I should have been doing this all along!"_


### [2] Update your dnf/yum repo configuration - switch to the new "stable" repo

After DATE-TBD: If are already have the repository RPM installed --
toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm -- the repository switch to 0.13.0 will be
automated for you. That will be the date that all masternodes should have
already been switched over.

#### If you have not already installed the `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo` RPM...

```
# Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf list --refresh | grep dashcore
```
```
## CentOS/RHEL (NO LONGER SUPPORTED AS OF v0.13.0!)...
#sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
#sudo yum install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
#sudo yum clean expire-cache
#sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

#### Are you upgrading before DATE-TBD and you already installed `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo`?...

```
# Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf upgrade -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf list --refresh | grep dashcore
```

```
## CentOS/RHEL (NO LONGER SUPPORTED AS OF v0.13.0!)...
#sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
#sudo yum update -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
#sudo yum clean expire-cache
#sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

#### Are you upgrading on or after DATE-TBD and you already installed `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo`? Do this instead...

```
# Fedora...
sudo dnf upgrade toddpkgs-dashcore-repo --refresh -y
sudo dnf list | grep dashcore
```
```
# CentOS/RHEL (NO LONGER SUPPORTED AS OF v0.13.0!)...
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum update toddpkgs-dashcore-repo -y
sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

Updating that RPM will automatically enable the 0.13.0 stable repository. If the
above commands did not show 0.13.0 packages listed, investigate your
/etc/yum.repos.d/ directory. The repo definition file may be installed in an
.rpmnew file or some such and need to be manually moved with the `mv` command.


### [3] Upgrade Dash Core binary packages

```
# Fedora...
# Upgrade Dash Core and Sentinel
sudo dnf upgrade -y
```

```
## CentOS/RHEL (NO LONGER SUPPORTED AS OF v0.13.0!)...
## Upgrade Dash Core and Sentinel
#sudo yum update -y
```


### [4] Start everything back up

#### If this is a GUI wallet - `dash-qt`

Start it up via the desktop menuing system. It _might_ ask if you want to
re-index the blockchain. If it does, choose "YES". When complete, check your
balances.


#### If this is a node (or masternode) - `dashd`

Note: For the blockcount information below, it needs to match the current block
height as listed at <https://explorer.dash.org/chain/Dash> (or one of the
explorers listed at <https://www.dash.org/network/>. If you are using TESTNET,
check out one of the explorers found
[here](https://docs.dash.org/en/stable/developers/testnet.html?highlight=explorers#explorers).


If running `dashd` as a normal user and not as a systemd managed service...
```
# Start the Dash Core server...
dashd # It will start and daemonize (give you the commandline prompt back)
# Watch the blockcount (CRTL-C to exit this loop)...
watch dash-cli getblockcount # CTRL-C to exit
# Watch the debug.log
tail -f ~/.dashcore/debug.log
```

If running node (or masternode) as a `systemd` managed service...
```
# Start dashd.service...
sudo systemctl start dashd
# Watch the blockcount (CRTL-C to exit this loop)...
watch sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore getblockcount
# Watch the debug.log...
sudo -u dashcore tail -f /var/lib/dashcore/debug.log
```

If this is a masternode...
```
# Check the results of `mnsync status`. If the status never syncs fully, you
# may have to perform a `mnsync reset`. Note that the syncing process can take 15
# to 30 minutes.
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore masternode mnsync reset
```

### [5] Masternode upgrade only: Send start command from Wallet to Masternode

*This only has to happen for major releases, like 0.12.3 to 0.13.0. You
usually don't have send the restart command for minor releases (eg. 0.13.0 to
0.13.1). The protocol change from 0.12.3 to 0.13.0 was `70210` to `70212`*

***You have to restart the Masternode from your collateralizing wallet. Here's
how...***

1. Ensure you have upgraded your wallet as well (IMPORTANT).
2. Open your wallet, you can either...
   * Masternode tab > right click on masternode > Start alias
   * Tools menu > Debug console > _masternode start-alias <MN Alias>_
   * From command line: _dash-cli masternode start-alias <MN Alias>_


### Masternode upgrade in particular: Monitor your status

```
# For systemd-run masternodes...
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore getnetworkinfo
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore mnsync status
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore masternode debug
```

### [6] Masternode upgrades only:<br />Deploy new v0.13 configurations to support Deterministic Masternode Lists

Follow these instructions (step 1 is what you already just performed):
<https://docs.dash.org/en/latest/masternodes/maintenance.html#dash-0-13-upgrade-procedure>

## Done.

It really isn't hard. If you read through this once or twice, you kinda get
what we are doing: _Update the RPM packages, restart everything._ Easy peasy.
If you foul everything up. Just try again.

More configuration. At your convenient, you really should ensure your firewall
rules are rechecked (see `howto.secure-your-dash-masternode.md`).

---

### Good luck! Comments and Feedback...

Got a dash of feedback? Send it my way: <https://keybase.io/toddwarner><br />
