documentation/howto.dashcore-upgrade-from-12.2-to-12.3.md, before:

# HowTo: Upgrade from Dash Core version 12.2 to 12.3

**WARNING: If you are upgrading a Masternode, it will require a wallet-driven
restart due to a protocol bump, so time your upgrade to happen soon after your
normal Masternode payout.**

> These instructions are specific to node, masternode, and wallet users running
> the software on Fedora, CentOS, or RHEL plugged into the `yum` or `dnf`
> install and update process described in other documentation found at
> <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm>.

The process for upgrade is actually rather trivial.

## The process

#### _...summary..._
* Shut everything down
* Back everything up
* Update your repo configuration
* Upgrade Dash Core binary packages from 12.2 to 12.3
* Start everything back up
* Send start command from wallet to Masternode (Masternodes only)
* Monitor the configuration over time and adjust

### [0] Shut everything down

* If running `dash-qt`, in your menus choose "File" and then "Exit"
* If running `dashd` manually (not as a systemd service), then issue a shutdown with `dash-cli stop`
* If running `dashd` as a systemd service, then issue a shutdown command with `sudo systemctl stop dash`

### [1] Back everything up

Note: If you are just running a node with no funds associated, you don't really need to back it up. If disaster strikes, you can just rebuild it. A masternode can be similarly rebuilt, but a backup makes everything easier. And of course, with a wallet, a backup is critical for ensuring your funds are protected.

The easiest way to back up your wallet is to shut it down and then copy any configuration and wallet data files.

* Shut down your dash-qt or dashd -- You should have already done this
* Open up a terminal
* Create a tar-archive of your configuration and wallet data files<br />
  _Note: If these are overly complicated for you, just be sure to copy `wallet.dat` and any `.conf` files somewhere and you will be fine._

This is the general scheme...
```
sudo tar cvzf dash-backup-$(date +%F).tar.gz /path/to/dash.conf $(find /path/to/dash-data-directory -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

Scenario: You run dashd as a `systemd` service...
```
sudo tar cvzf dashcore-backup-$(date +%F).tar.gz /etc/dashcore/dash.conf $(find /var/lib/dashcore -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

Scenario: You run dashd or dash-qt directly and configuration is stored in your home directory...
```
tar cvzf dashcore-backup-$(date +%F).tar.gz $(find ~/.dashcore  -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

* Test your backup
```
mkdir x
cd x
cp ../dashcore-backup-*.tar.gz .
tar xvzf dashcore-backup-*.tar.gz
sha256sum wallet.dat /path/to/dash-data-directory/wallet.dat # The results should match
cd ..
rm -rf x
```
* If you ever need to restore your wallet, node, or masternode, set up a new
  one and just like in the test, extract the archive but this time replace
  all the new setup's files with the ones from the archive.
* Store that "tarball" somewhere safe.
* Repeat to yourself: _"I should have been doing this anyway!"_


### [2] Update your dnf/yum repo configuration - switch to the new "stable" repo

If are already have the repository RPM installed, after July 14th the
repository switch to 12.3 will be automated for you. July 14th is when all
masternodes should have already switched over (11 days after July 3rd).

#### If you have not already installed the `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo` RPM...

```
# Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf list --refresh | grep dashcore
```
```
# CentOS/RHEL...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo yum install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

#### Are you upgrading before July 14th and you already installed `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo`?...

```
# Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf upgrade -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf list --refresh | grep dashcore
```

```
# CentOS/RHEL...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo yum update -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

#### Are you upgrading on or after July 14th and you already installed `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo`? Do this instead...

```
# Fedora...
sudo dnf upgrade toddpkgs-dashcore-repo --refresh -y
sudo dnf list | grep dashcore
```
```
# CentOS/RHEL...
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum update toddpkgs-dashcore-repo -y
sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

Updating that RPM will automatically enable the 12.3 stable repository. If the
above commands did not show 12.3 packages listed, investigate your
/etc/yum.repos.d/ directory. The repo definition file may be installed in an
.rpmnew file or some such and need to be manually moved with the `mv` command.


### [3] Upgrade Dash Core binary packages

```
# Fedora...
# Upgrade Dash Core and Sentinel
sudo dnf upgrade -y
```

```
# CentOS/RHEL...
# Upgrade Dash Core and Sentinel
sudo yum update -y
```


### [4] Start everything back up

#### If this is a GUI wallet - `dash-qt`

Start it up via the desktop menuing system. It _might_ ask if you want to
re-index the blockchain. If it does, choose "YES". When complete, check your
balances.


#### If this is a node (or masternode) - `dashd`

Note: For the blockcount information below, it needs to match the current block
height as listed at <https://explorer.dash.org>.


If running `dashd` as a normal user and not as a systemd managed service...
```
# Start the Dash Core server...
dashd # It will start and daemonize (give you the commandline prompt back)
# Watch the blockcount (CRTL-C to exit this loop)...
watch dash-cli getblockcount # CTRL-C to exit
# Watch the debug.log
tail -f ~/.dashcore/debug.log
```

If running node (or masternode) as a `systemd` service...
```
# Start dashd.service...
sudo systemctl start dashd
# Watch the blockcount (CRTL-C to exit this loop)...
watch sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf getblockcount
# Watch the debug.log...
sudo -u dashcore tail -f /var/lib/dashcore/debug.log
```

If this is a masternode...
```
# Check the results of `mnsync status`. If the status never syncs fully, you
# may have to perform a `mnsync reset`. Note that the syncing process can take 15
# to 30 minutes.
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf masternode mnsync reset
```

### [5] Masternode upgrade only: Send start command from Wallet to Masternode

***This only has to happen for major releases, like 12.0 to 12.1 ..or in this
case 12.2 to 12.3. You don't have send the restart command for minor releases
(eg. 12.3.1 to 12.3.2). The protocol change was from `70209` to `70210`***

***You have to restart the Masternode from your collateralizing wallet. Here's
how...***

1. Ensure you have upgraded your wallet as well.
2. Open your wallet, you can either...
   * Masternode tab > right click on masternode > Start alias
   * Tools menu > Debug console > _masternode start <MN Alias>_
   * From command line: _dash-cli masternode start <MN Alias>_  ---TODO: Need to test this. 


### Masternode upgrade in particular: Monitor your status

```
# For systemd-run masternodes...
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore getnetworkinfo
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore mnsync status
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore masternode debug
```



## Done.

It really isn't hard. If you read through this once or twice, you kinda get
what we are doing: _Update the RPM packages, restart everything._ Easy peasy.
If you foul everything up. Just try again.

More configuration. At your convenient, you really should ensure your firewall
rules are rechecked (see `howto.secure-your-dash-masternode.md`).

---

### Good luck! Comments and Feedback...

Got a dash of feedback? Send it my way: <https://keybase.io/toddwarner><br />

Commit message:

Warning about need to upgrade OS to Fedora 28 before moving to v12.3

documentation/howto.dashcore-upgrade-from-12.2-to-12.3.md, after:

# HowTo: Upgrade from Dash Core version 12.2 to 12.3

**WARNING1: If you are upgrading a Masternode, it will require a wallet-driven
restart due to a protocol bump, so time your upgrade to happen soon after your
normal Masternode payout.**

**WARNING2: These v12.3 RPMs are built for EL7 (CentOS and RHEL 7 - x86_64
only) and Fedora 28 (x86_64 and i386). If you are using Fedora 27 or even
Fedora 26, you will have to upgrade your operating system FIRST before
upgrading the Dash reference client or node. Read about upgrading the OS
[here](https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/blob/master/documentation/howto.upgrade-the-operating-system.md).**

> These instructions are specific to node, masternode, and wallet users running
> the software on Fedora, CentOS, or RHEL plugged into the `yum` or `dnf`
> install and update process described in other documentation found at
> <https://github.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm>.

The process for upgrade is actually rather trivial.

## The process

#### _...summary..._
* Shut everything down
* Back everything up
* Update your repo configuration
* Upgrade Dash Core binary packages from 12.2 to 12.3
* Start everything back up
* Send start command from wallet to Masternode (Masternodes only)
* Monitor the configuration over time and adjust

### [0] Shut everything down

* If running `dash-qt`, in your menus choose "File" and then "Exit"
* If running `dashd` manually (not as a systemd service), then issue a shutdown with `dash-cli stop`
* If running `dashd` as a systemd service, then issue a shutdown command with `sudo systemctl stop dash`

### [1] Back everything up

Note: If you are just running a node with no funds associated, you don't really need to back it up. If disaster strikes, you can just rebuild it. A masternode can be similarly rebuilt, but a backup makes everything easier. And of course, with a wallet, a backup is critical for ensuring your funds are protected.

The easiest way to back up your wallet is to shut it down and then copy any configuration and wallet data files.

* Shut down your dash-qt or dashd -- You should have already done this
* Open up a terminal
* Create a tar-archive of your configuration and wallet data files<br />
  _Note: If these are overly complicated for you, just be sure to copy `wallet.dat` and any `.conf` files somewhere and you will be fine._

This is the general scheme...
```
sudo tar cvzf dash-backup-$(date +%F).tar.gz /path/to/dash.conf $(find /path/to/dash-data-directory -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

Scenario: You run dashd as a `systemd` service...
```
sudo tar cvzf dashcore-backup-$(date +%F).tar.gz /etc/dashcore/dash.conf $(find /var/lib/dashcore -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

Scenario: You run dashd or dash-qt directly and configuration is stored in your home directory...
```
tar cvzf dashcore-backup-$(date +%F).tar.gz $(find ~/.dashcore  -name '*.conf' -or -name 'wallet.dat*')
```

* Test your backup
```
mkdir x
cd x
cp ../dashcore-backup-*.tar.gz .
tar xvzf dashcore-backup-*.tar.gz
sha256sum wallet.dat /path/to/dash-data-directory/wallet.dat # The results should match
cd ..
rm -rf x
```
* If you ever need to restore your wallet, node, or masternode, set up a new
  one and just like in the test, extract the archive but this time replace
  all the new setup's files with the ones from the archive.
* Store that "tarball" somewhere safe.
* Repeat to yourself: _"I should have been doing this anyway!"_


### [2] Update your dnf/yum repo configuration - switch to the new "stable" repo

If are already have the repository RPM installed, after July 14th the
repository switch to 12.3 will be automated for you. July 14th is when all
masternodes should have already switched over (11 days after July 3rd).

#### If you have not already installed the `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo` RPM...

```
# Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf list --refresh | grep dashcore
```
```
# CentOS/RHEL...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo yum install -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

#### Are you upgrading before July 14th and you already installed `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo`?...

```
# Fedora...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo dnf upgrade -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.fedora.rpm
sudo dnf list --refresh | grep dashcore
```

```
# CentOS/RHEL...
sudo rpm --import https://keybase.io/toddwarner/key.asc
sudo yum update -y https://raw.githubusercontent.com/taw00/dashcore-rpm/master/toddpkgs-dashcore-repo.centos.rpm
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

#### Are you upgrading on or after July 14th and you already installed `toddpkgs-dashcore-repo`? Do this instead...

```
# Fedora...
sudo dnf upgrade toddpkgs-dashcore-repo --refresh -y
sudo dnf list | grep dashcore
```
```
# CentOS/RHEL...
sudo yum clean expire-cache
sudo yum update toddpkgs-dashcore-repo -y
sudo yum list | grep dashcore
```

Updating that RPM will automatically enable the 12.3 stable repository. If the
above commands did not show 12.3 packages listed, investigate your
/etc/yum.repos.d/ directory. The repo definition file may be installed in an
.rpmnew file or some such and need to be manually moved with the `mv` command.


### [3] Upgrade Dash Core binary packages

```
# Fedora...
# Upgrade Dash Core and Sentinel
sudo dnf upgrade -y
```

```
# CentOS/RHEL...
# Upgrade Dash Core and Sentinel
sudo yum update -y
```


### [4] Start everything back up

#### If this is a GUI wallet - `dash-qt`

Start it up via the desktop menuing system. It _might_ ask if you want to
re-index the blockchain. If it does, choose "YES". When complete, check your
balances.


#### If this is a node (or masternode) - `dashd`

Note: For the blockcount information below, it needs to match the current block
height as listed at <https://explorer.dash.org>.


If running `dashd` as a normal user and not as a systemd managed service...
```
# Start the Dash Core server...
dashd # It will start and daemonize (give you the commandline prompt back)
# Watch the blockcount (CRTL-C to exit this loop)...
watch dash-cli getblockcount # CTRL-C to exit
# Watch the debug.log
tail -f ~/.dashcore/debug.log
```

If running node (or masternode) as a `systemd` service...
```
# Start dashd.service...
sudo systemctl start dashd
# Watch the blockcount (CRTL-C to exit this loop)...
watch sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf getblockcount
# Watch the debug.log...
sudo -u dashcore tail -f /var/lib/dashcore/debug.log
```

If this is a masternode...
```
# Check the results of `mnsync status`. If the status never syncs fully, you
# may have to perform a `mnsync reset`. Note that the syncing process can take 15
# to 30 minutes.
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf masternode mnsync reset
```

### [5] Masternode upgrade only: Send start command from Wallet to Masternode

***This only has to happen for major releases, like 12.0 to 12.1 ..or in this
case 12.2 to 12.3. You don't have send the restart command for minor releases
(eg. 12.3.1 to 12.3.2). The protocol change was from `70209` to `70210`***

***You have to restart the Masternode from your collateralizing wallet. Here's
how...***

1. Ensure you have upgraded your wallet as well.
2. Open your wallet, you can either...
   * Masternode tab > right click on masternode > Start alias
   * Tools menu > Debug console > _masternode start <MN Alias>_
   * From command line: _dash-cli masternode start <MN Alias>_  ---TODO: Need to test this. 


### Masternode upgrade in particular: Monitor your status

```
# For systemd-run masternodes...
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore getnetworkinfo
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore mnsync status
sudo -u dashcore dash-cli -conf=/etc/dashcore/dash.conf -datadir=/var/lib/dashcore masternode debug
```



## Done.

It really isn't hard. If you read through this once or twice, you kinda get
what we are doing: _Update the RPM packages, restart everything._ Easy peasy.
If you foul everything up. Just try again.

More configuration. At your convenient, you really should ensure your firewall
rules are rechecked (see `howto.secure-your-dash-masternode.md`).

---

### Good luck! Comments and Feedback...

Got a dash of feedback? Send it my way: <https://keybase.io/toddwarner><br />
